# Download Matomo software

---

### Prerequisites

---

> For convenience, I recommend using the remote development tool [theia](https://theia-ide.org/) in slapos to connect to the server for development, about how to request theia, you can check this tutorial : [How to request a theia](https://www.erp5.com/rapidspace-How.To.Download.Matomo.software.By.Stack.Lamp.In.Buildout/rapidspace-HowTo.Request.A.Theia.Runner). 
>
> And In order to better understand this tutorial, you should have mastered the basic knowledge about slapos (including slapos node, instance...). If not, I recommend you to read related tutorials on [our official website](https://handbook.rapid.space/user). 



### operation

---

>1. Firstly, Create a new folder named **`matomo`** to put all files about deployment of matomo, then create a new file named **`software.cfg`** in it. 
>
>2. Then, Add a new section **`buildout`** in file **`software.cfg`**, we need to add some dependencies of matomo. The specific environment where matomo runs can be found on [matomo github](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo), we need **php**, **mysql** and a web server like **apache**，so that means all we need is a **lamp**, which means **l**inux,**a**pache,**m**ysql,**p**hp. 
>
>    Fortunately, among the existing stacks, we have already **lamp**, It has already make the configuration of mariadb and apache-php for us, providing us with a ready-made, full set of server environment, with which we can directly shift the focus of deploying applications to download and configure matomo itself, instead of writing **apache-php** and **mariadb** buildout from scratch.
>
>    So in the section **`buildout`**, add a variable extends to include stack **lamp** (`../../stack/lamp/buildout.cfg`), and add stack **slapos** (`../../stack/slapos.cfg`), who include some basic things in slapos.
>
>    Besides, add two lines **`slapos-cookbook` **and **`instance`** as the variable **parts**, **`slapos-cookbook` **is a library include some useful function, and **`instance`** is to make sure the all instance of matomo will be created.
>
>    So the final **`buildout`**section you add should look like this:
>
>   ```
>   [buildout]
>   extends =
>       ../../stack/lamp/buildout.cfg
>       ../../stack/slapos.cfg
>   parts =
>       slapos-cookbook
>       instance
>   ```
>
>
>
>3. Next, we need to control the version of python, for better compatibility, we recommend using python3, so add a section like this: 
>
>   ```
>   #to make sure we use python3
>   [python]
>   part = python3
>   ```
>
>​      to make sure we use python3
>
>4. Then, for downloading matomo, we use a section named **`application`** ,The **`url`** in it will be passed to the stack **LAMP** and the zip file in url will be downloaded. The **`md5sum`** is the check code of the file download to verify the integrity of the file.
>
>   ```
>   [application]
>   url = https://builds.matomo.org/matomo-4.7.1.zip
>   md5sum = 8d592676bc2c0d51363ad7b2caf171fe
>   ```
>
>​     This is all defined in the **`LAMP`** so it seems quiltly easy for us, we need't to do anything else.
>
>
>
>These are all the actions we need to do in this step



### Check

---

> For confirming all things in this step work normally, we should check if the matomo source file has been downloaded.
>
> Create a new bash file named **`request-matomo-instance.sh`** in path **`~/srv/project`**,to request an instance of matomo. run the script and run the command **`slapos node software --all`** in terminal to compile software we added.
>
> Then, waiting for compiling, this step will take long time (maybe several hours) cause there are lots of components and stacks who need to compile from scratch, so just be patient.
>
> After finishing, normally, you can find the source file of matomo in path **`~/src/project/runner/instance/slappart2/srv/www`**





















