# Create a Matomo Instance Configuration File

---

Now, we have finished first step, normally, matomo source file has already downloaded in the slappart of your instance, if you can't find it, please check each step carefully.

### operation

> 1. Now, let's get continue, since we may need to download multiple configuration files later, we add a section here in file **`software.cfg`** as the Download Base, later when we need to add some new file, we could extend this section to avoid duplicate code.
>
>    ```
>    [matomo-download]
>    recipe = slapos.recipe.build:download
>    url = ${:_profile_base_location_}/${:filename}
>    ```
>
> 1. Then, create a file named **`matomo-instance.cfg`** , at the same time edit something in file **`software.cfg`** ,On the one hand, create a new section named **`template-matomo-instance`**,in witch we move the configuration file we added to the instance ( the **`template`** is the configuration  template file we created before, and the **`rendered`** is where we want to put it in instance ), On the other hand, we need to register it in **`part`** of section **`buildout`** to make sure the instance configuration file will be created, so add a new line **`template-matomo-instance`** in it.
>
>    ```
>    parts =
>    ....
>    # to create file instance-matomo.cfg in instance of apache-php
>      template-matomo-instance
>    ....
>    [template-matomo-instance]
>    recipe = slapos.recipe.template:jinja2
>    template = ${:_profile_base_location_}/${:filename}
>    rendered = ${buildout:directory}/instance-matomo.cfg
>    extensions = jinja2.ext.do
>    context =
>      key gzip_location gzip:location
>      key python3_location python3:location
>    ```
>
> 2. Next, to verify the correctness of the file content, we generally need to check the **MD5sum** code of it, to make this step more easy, we can add a new file named **`buildout.hash.cfg`**, if we register the section name and the file name we added in this file, it will help us to update the **md5sum** code automatically.
>
>    Besides, in file software.cfg, add a new line **`buildout.hash.cfg`**  in **`extends`** of section **`buildout`** to make the auto-update function work. 
>
>    In file **`buildout.hash.cfg`**, we register the name of template file we added and reserve a position for the md5sum code like this:
>
>    ```
>    [template-matomo-instance]
>    filename = matomo-instance.cfg.in
>    md5sum =
>    ```
>
>    when we run the command **`update-hash`** in terminal, the md5sum code will be updated automatically, so we needn't check the code by our head every time.
>
> 3. Finally, It's important to add a new section **`custom-application-deployment`** in file **`software.cfg`**. 
>
>    The **`path`** here is the variable **`rendered`** in section **`template-matomo-instance`**, witch means the output path of the configuration file in our instance. After adding this section, the file **`matomo-instance.cfg`** will be detected by lamp. Without it we can't create instance matomo
>    
>    ```
>    [custom-application-deployment]
>    path = ${template-matomo-instance:rendered}
>    ```
>

### Check

> Firstly, switch current directory to folder **`matomo`**
>
> ```
> cd ~/srv/project/slapos/software/matomo
> ```
>
> Then, run the auto-update command, we will find the md5sun code in file **`buildout.hash.cfg`** update automatically. 
>
> ```
> ../../update-hash
> ```
>
> To check the output instance configuration file, recompile software by command in terminal:
>
> ```
> slapos node software --all
> slapos node instance --all
> ```
>
> Search in path **`~/srv/projet/slapos/runner/software`** to check if there exist a file named **`instance-matomo.cfg`**. If it exists, everything is fine. 
>
> When you try to create your instance by command `"slapos node instance --all`", there will be some errors, which is normal because there are many things we haven't configured. So now just check if there exist the output instance configuration file and let's keep going on.
