# How To Add a Apache Configuration File

---

In the previous chapter, we added a backup feature to matomo. so far, we haven't configured the apache server, we can't access the matomo application through the web yet. 

In this step, we will add a apache configuration file to make the matomo work, whitch means after this step, we could start to use matomo in our browser.

In fact, this step is very similar to the previous step in adding a Matomo backup function, the main goal is to move the configuration file we added to the corresponding directory in the instance to make it effective.

### operation

>1. The first things we need to do is creating a new configuration template file named **`apache-httpd.conf.in`**
>2. Then, edit file **``software.cfg``**
>   - Add a new keyword about the location of adding file in section **`template-matomo-instance`** , who will be passed to instance configuration file like the parameters we added before.
>   - Add a new download section **`template-apache-httpd`** who extends download base.
>
>​       The reason for adding this part is same to the second step in previous chapter
>
>3. Edit file **``matomo-instance.cfg.in``**
>   - Add some php configuration parameters in section **`instance-parameter`** 
>   - Add a recipe section **`matomo-apache-httpd`**, the output file should been put in **`${directory:apache.d}`**, which has been set as root directory of apache configuration file in **`LAMP`**
>4. To make the configuration file work, we also need to register it in part-list of section **`custom-application-deployment`**
>4. Finally,  in file **`buildout.hash.cfg`**, add the corresponding section

### check

Recompile it like what we did before

```
cd ~/srv/project/slapos/software/matomo
../../update-hash
slapos node software --all
slapos node instance --all
```

Normally, after compiling, we can access matomo application from browser.

we can rerun the bash script **`request-matomo-instance.sh`** to get information about instance, and the parameter **`backend-url`** is the web link to access our matomo.
